SECTIONSHOMESEARCHSKIP TO CONTENTSKIP TO NAVIGATIONVIEW MOBILE VERSION
POLITICS|Paul Manafort Quits Donald Trump’s Campaign After Tumultuous Run
LOG IN 
481
 SETTINGS

Paul Manafort Quits Donald Trump’s Campaign After Tumultuous Run

Republicans Worry a Falling Donald Trump Tide Will Lower All Boats

THE RUN-UP
Understanding the Trump Voter

If Hillary Clinton Wins, Foundation Will Stop Accepting Foreign Donations

Donald Trump’s Crucial Pillar of Support, White Men, Shows Weakness
Play Video
Donald Trump Steps Out of Character to Voice Unexplained Regrets

In Florida, Pregnant Women Cover Up and Stay Inside Amid Zika Fears

PUBLIC HEALTH
Think Your Obamacare Plan Will Be Like Employer Coverage?...

Ryan Lochte Apologizes ‘For My Behavior’ After Rio Robbery Claim

U.S. Swimmers’ Disputed Robbery Claim Fuels Tension in Brazil

For the Spotlight? Ryan Lochte Was Ready to Do Anything

The Latest on the Ryan Lochte Case

100? 200? Doesn’t Matter. They Still Can’t Catch Usain Bolt.

Ryan Lochte, Usain Bolt, Ashton Eaton: Your Friday Briefing

YOUR MONEY
These Airlines Are Making It Easier to Share Miles

TRAVEL TIPS
How to Fight Jet Lag (Naps Are Good)

Uber Aims for an Edge in the Race for a Self-Driving Future

Father and Son Killed in Police Custody Cast Shadow on Philippine Drug War

False Reports of Gunfire at J.F.K. Airport Offer a Real Case Study in Security

U.S. Concedes $400 Million Payment to Iran Was Delayed as Prisoner ‘Leverage’
Loading...
ELECTION 2016 Who Will Win?   Latest Polls   Primary Results   Get the
Newsletter
Paul Manafort Quits Donald Trump’s Campaign After Tumultuous Run
By MAGGIE HABERMANAUG. 19, 2016
Continue reading the main storyShare This Page
Email
Save

481
Photo

Paul Manafort spoke with reporters on the floor of the Republican National
Convention in Cleveland last month. Credit Eric Thayer for The New York Times
Paul Manafort, installed to run Donald J. Trump’s operation after the firing
of his original campaign manager, handed in his resignation on Friday,
signifying the latest tumult to engulf the candidate, whose standing in the
polls has steadily dropped since the Republican Party’s convention in July.

Mr. Manafort left nearly a week after a New York Times report about problems
within the Republican presidential nominee’s campaign helped precipitate a
leadership shake-up. His departure reflects repeated efforts to steady a
campaign that has been frequently roiled by the unpredictable behavior of its
tempestuous first-time candidate.

Mr. Manafort was also dogged by reports about secretive efforts he made to
help the former pro-Russian government in Ukraine, where he has worked on and
off over several years. Those news reports were blotting out much of the press
coverage of the candidate this week. And they contributed to Mr. Manafort
becoming viewed with trepidation by Jared Kushner, Mr. Trump’s son-in-law and
a major force within the campaign, particularly after a number of false starts
since the Republican National Convention, according to three people briefed on
the matter.

“This morning Paul Manafort offered, and I accepted, his resignation from the
campaign,” Mr. Trump said in a statement. “I am very appreciative for his
great work in helping to get us where we are today, and in particular his work
guiding us through the delegate and convention process. Paul is a true
professional and I wish him the greatest success.”

Mr. Manafort, a veteran strategist who had managed Republican nominating
conventions in the past, was hired by the campaign in late March, as Mr. Trump
was facing a protracted delegate slog in his effort to capture the Republican
nomination. When he joined the campaign, he was seen as a peer to Mr. Trump,
70, and someone whose advice Mr. Trump might heed. In fact, Mr. Manafort had
pushed for the selection of Mike Pence, the Republican governor of Indiana, as
Mr. Trump’s running mate.

But until this week, the role of campaign manager had remained empty since the
June ouster of Corey Lewandowski, who played into Mr. Trump’s most aggressive
instincts and with whom the candidate had a level of chemistry that he never
forged with Mr. Manafort, according to several advisers who witnessed them
interact. Mr. Trump has continued to seek out Mr. Lewandowski’s counsel since
his firing.

Since the convention in Cleveland, Mr. Trump has engaged in a series of
self-defeating battles, including belittling the mother of a Muslim soldier
who was killed in Iraq and threatening to withhold an endorsement from House
Speaker Paul D. Ryan. Aides have tried a range of efforts to reign in his
impulses, including adding different travel companions.

Breaking News Alerts
Sign up to receive an email from The New York Times as soon as important news
breaks around the world.


Mr. Manafort ended up taking over the campaign two months ago after Mr.
Lewandowski was fired when he became a distraction to the candidate and his
children over a string of high-profile fights.

Mr. Manafort’s deputy, Rick Gates, is expected to remain on the campaign, for
now, the people briefed on the matter said. Mr. Manafort’s friends said
privately that he urged core staff members he brought on to remain with the
campaign.

Last weekend, Mr. Trump decided to install Stephen K. Bannon as his chief
executive officer and Kellyanne Conway, a senior adviser, as the new campaign
manager. That followed an emergency meeting called after the Times article on
Sunday on the frequent and troubled efforts by Mr. Trump’s top advisers to
curtail his pugilistic instincts.

Thomas Barrack, a financier and friend of Mr. Trump who helped bring Mr.
Manafort into the campaign, expressed regret about the turn of events
involving Mr. Manafort.

“I’ve known him since we were in college, he’s a first-class person, he’s an
amazing individual and he has been the lead architect in trying to seamlessly
put together the institutional side of this campaign,” Mr. Barrack said in an
interview. “I think the architecture he put together will continue to serve
the campaign well, but I’m sorry to see him go.”

After he was hired by Mr. Trump, Mr. Manafort helped quash uprisings among
Republican delegates that, even if they wouldn’t imperil Mr. Trump’s ability
to get the nomination, would have been an embarrassing distraction at the
convention.


481
COMMENTS
In an interview with Fox News, Eric Trump, the candidate’s second-oldest son,
appeared to acknowledge that Mr. Manafort did not entirely leave on his own.

“My father just didn’t want to have the distraction looming over the campaign
and quite frankly looming over all the issues that Hillary’s facing right
now,” Eric Trump said.

Correction: August 19, 2016 
An earlier version of this article incorrectly described when Paul Manafort
took the role of chief strategist for Donald J. Trump’s campaign. It happened
on May 19, weeks before the firing of Corey Lewandowski, the campaign manager.

Follow Maggie Haberman on Twitter @maggieNYT.

Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get
politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.

Continue reading the main story

Presidential Election 2016
The latest news and analysis of the candidates and issues shaping the
presidential race.
As Donald Trump Falters, Democrats Plan to Press Fight for Supreme Court
AUG 19
Who Will Be President?
JUL 19
Donald Trump Catches Critics by Surprise With One Word: ‘Regret’
AUG 19
Understanding the Trump Voter
AUG 19
Donald Trump Steps Out of Character to Voice Unexplained Regrets
AUG 18
See More »

RELATED COVERAGE


Ukraine Releases More Details on Payments for Trump Aide AUG. 18, 2016

Secret Ledger in Ukraine Lists Cash for Donald Trump’s Campaign Chief AUG. 14,
2016

Republicans Worry a Falling Donald Trump Tide Will Lower All Boats AUG. 18,
2016

Donald Trump Steps Out of Character to Voice Unexplained Regrets AUG. 18, 2016

Donald Trump Catches Critics by Surprise With One Word: ‘Regret’ AUG. 19, 2016
RELATED COVERAGE
Ukraine Releases More Details on Payments for Trump Aide AUG. 18, 2016

Secret Ledger in Ukraine Lists Cash for Donald Trump’s Campaign Chief AUG. 14,
2016

Republicans Worry a Falling Donald Trump Tide Will Lower All Boats AUG. 18,
2016

SHOW ALL
TRENDING


Paul Manafort Quits Donald Trump’s Campaign After Tumultuous Run

Ryan Lochte Apologizes ‘For My Behavior’ After Rio Robbery Claim

Republicans Worry a Falling Donald Trump Tide Will Lower All Boats

Op-Ed Columnist: Obamacare Hits a Bump

U.S. Swimmers’ Disputed Robbery Claim Fuels Tension in Brazil

From Montreal to Minnesota, by Inland Sea

Donald Trump’s Crucial Pillar of Support, White Men, Shows Weakness

Modern Love: A Single Mom Escapes the Friend Zone, One Non-Date at a Time

Public Health: Think Your Obamacare Plan Will Be Like Employer Coverage? Think
Again

Feature: Fractured Lands: How the Arab World Came Apart
View More Trending Stories »

Presidential Election 2016
The latest news and analysis of the candidates and issues shaping the
presidential race.

As Donald Trump Falters, Democrats Plan to Press Fight for Supreme Court
The party’s leadership sees an opening to derail Republicans who are facing
re-election by blaming them for the delay in confirming Judge Merrick B.
Garland.

Donald Trump Catches Critics by Surprise With One Word: ‘Regret’
He did not specify what words he regretted, but his speech in Charlotte, N.C.,
was praised by some of his detractors as the best of his campaign.

Understanding the Trump Voter
In the latest episode of The Run-Up podcast, J.D. Vance, the author of
“Hillbilly Elegy,” explains Mr. Trump’s political rise.
More in Politics
Go to the Politics Section »

Ukraine Releases More Details on Payments for Trump Aide

Donald Trump Catches Critics by Surprise With One Word: ‘Regret’

As Donald Trump Falters, Democrats Plan to Press Fight for Supreme Court

Republicans Worry a Falling Donald Trump Tide Will Lower All Boats

Donald Trump’s Crucial Pillar of Support, White Men, Shows Weakness

How One Family’s Deep Pockets Helped Reshape Donald Trump’s Campaign
Recommended for You
Go to All Recommendations »

U.S. Swimmers’ Disputed Robbery Claim Fuels Tension in Brazil
American Swimmers Pulled Off Plane in Rio
A judge had issued an order to seize passports as doubts emerged over reports
United States swimmers had been...

The Evidence That Ryan Lochte Lied About an Armed Robbery in Rio
Go to Home Page »
SITE INDEX THE NEW YORK TIMES

Site Index Navigation
NEWS

World
U.S.
Politics
N.Y.
Business
Tech
Science
Health
Sports
Education
Obituaries
Today's Paper
Corrections
OPINION

Today's Opinion
Op-Ed Columnists
Editorials
Contributing Writers
Op-Ed Contributors
Opinionator
Letters
Sunday Review
Taking Note
Room for Debate
Public Editor
Video: Opinion
ARTS

Today's Arts
Art & Design
Books
Dance
Movies
Music
N.Y.C. Events Guide
Television
Theater
Video: Arts
LIVING

Automobiles
Crossword
Food
Education
Fashion & Style
Health
Jobs
Magazine
N.Y.C. Events Guide
Real Estate
T Magazine
Travel
Weddings & Celebrations
LISTINGS & MORE

Classifieds
Tools & Services
Times Topics
Public Editor
N.Y.C. Events Guide
Blogs
Multimedia
Photography
Video
NYT Store
Times Journeys
Subscribe
Manage My Account
SUBSCRIBE

 Home Delivery
 Digital Subscriptions
 Times Insider
 Crossword
Email Newsletters
Alerts
Gift Subscriptions
Corporate Subscriptions
Education Rate
Mobile Applications
Replica Edition
International New York Times
Site Information Navigation
© 2016 The New York Times Company HomeSearchAccessibility concerns? Email us
at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.Contact UsWork
With UsAdvertiseYour Ad ChoicesPrivacyTerms of ServiceTerms of SaleSite
Information Navigation
Site MapHelpSite FeedbackSubscriptions
